it is extremely likely that people will be a lot more open minded in the future if our society continues to welcome art 
and culture from all over the world.

it is quite possible that the world will be a really clean and harmonious place in the future if we take measures to 
take care of our planet,

if we dont address the current traffic problems soon , it is highly probable that we will face serious problems in the
near future 


if we continue to treat the planet in this way , it is very likely that we will be in serious trouble in the future

it is likely/quite likely / highly likely/ very likely / extremely likely

it is probable /  quite probable / highly probable

it is possible / quite possible

Do you prefer X to. Y?
I prefer walkjn.g./I prefer to walk.,
Use comparatives of convenience or greater benefit like a native speaker.
Travelling by bus isfaster them g0ing by car.

i prefer cycling to travelling by bus. cycling is so much more convenient than taking the bus if you arent travelling too far. 
Actually, its often faster to go by bike because you don get stuck in traffic jam. Cycling is also better to my health than all other 
means of transport , including buses

generally , i prefer chatting online , i nearly always find that chatting online can be more sociable as you can speak to more 
than one person at the same time. also, chatting online is often much more fun because you can send smileys, photos and even videos 

prefer + verb-ing + to / rather than + verb-ing
I prefer cycling to t:akjng the bus.
I prefer eating to cookjng.
I prefer bal{jn.g cakes at home rather than buying them in shops.
I prefer reading a newspaper rather than watching TV.
prefer + to verb + rather than + verb
I prefer to cycle rather than tak§ the bus.
I prefer to eat rather than cool?,
I pref er to ba/~ cakes at home rather than bLtV them in shops.
I prefer to read a newspaper rather than watch TV.



Besides watching TV and talking to my friends, I can relax while travelling on the subway.
I like riding a bike as it's a very convenient way to travel. Besides, it's cheap and I can't
afford a car.

What do you usually/normally do?

Language steps
1. Use adverbs of frequency liI<e a native speaker to show how frequently or infrequently
you do things.
I often meet up with my, classmates.
I sometimes go shopping.
2. -Use the present simple tense & times of day correctly for general habits.
I ride my bike every day at 2 o'clock.
We have dinner together in the evening.
3. Show that you can use one or two common sequence markers.
Before class starts we talk.
We then go to bed.

Alice Well, usually I wake up around 8 a.m. I always have a cup of coffee while I
review my study notes over breakfast. Then I normall,)!, ride my bike to school,
apart from in winter, when it's way too cold. Before class starts, I often meet up
with my classmates in the corridor and we gossip a bit about life and school.
Mter school, I always go straight home and then start on my homework while
my mum cooks me dinner. I usually go to bed at about 10 p.m.
David .. .I alwG,)!s wake up jl:1st after 7 in the morning, then eat my breakfast on the way
to the subway station. I get to work at 8 o'clock sharp, and usually work until 5,
sometimes I work overtime until 7 or 8. Mter I get home, I l1ormalf.y eat dinner
with my wife ...

Alice Well, usually I wake \!lp around 8 a.m .. :tben I normally ride my bike to school,
apart from in winter, when it's way too cold. Before class starts,' I often meet up
with my classmates in the corridor and we gossip a bit about life and school. After
school, I always go straight home and then start 011 my homework while my mum'
cooks me dinner ...
David .. .I always wake up just after, 7 in the morning, then eat my breakfast on the way
to the subway station .. .After I get hoine, I normally eat dinner with my wife and
after that either hang out with friends or watch TV before going to bed at about
11.

always
I always go out partying every night when I'm on holiday.
often
She often goes running after class.
never
She never rides her bike in winter.
almost never
We almost never go out dancing.
rarely
He rarely eats rice.
hardly ever
She hardly ever exercises.
Adverbs that can go before or after the subject
usually
Usua lly I wake up around 8 a.m.
I usua lly wake up around 8 a.m.
normally
Normally I help my mum with the cooking.
I normally help my mum with the cooking.
sometimes
We sometimes go shopping.
Sometimes we go shopping.
IdJ Exercise

What do you like to do

1. Use either enjoy l Uke + verb-ing or like + to verb.
I li~ studying English.
I li~ to study English.
2. Use one or two native speaker ways to say I like.
I'm quite into playing guitar.
I'm really keen on studying English.
3. Use some adjectives of positive feeling to show the degrees of your interest.
I like playing football. It's exciting.
I'm quite into learning new languages. I find itfascinatiI like watching football matches - they are so exciting.ng.


Alice Well, I have lots of hobbies I like to do in my spare time. I'm velY interested in
studying English and I'm also quite into movies - sometimes I combine these two
interests by watching British or American films. What I particularly enjoy doing,
though, is playing football- it's so exciting!
David ... I'm involved in a reading group at my university and every so often we get together
and discuss the latest books we've read over dinner - it's so stimu1ating to
talk and hear different views about the books we've all read.

David I work really hard during the day so in the evening, I like to relax and unwind.
I'm a bigfan of hip. hop and rock music~ and I like hanging out with friends and
watching gigs. I'm also ~en on reading novels and short stories ... '

I really enjoy playing' tennis.
I really enjoy studying English. It is fun.
I like watching football matches - they are so exciting.
I'm quite into + activity/hobby
I'm quite into playing tennis - I get very excited about it.
I'm a big fan of + activity / ho bby
I'm a bigfan of guitar music - I often go to concerts.
I'm keen on + activity/hobby
I'm really kgen on going to eat in Thai restaurants. I love Thai food.
I'm interested in + activity/hobby
I'm ve lY interested in law; I'm always reading about the latest laws and legal cases.
He is bored when he has nothing to do.
She isfascinated by music.
They are interested in playing football.
I am satisfied with my lessons.
The boy is excited when I give him food.
Use be + verb-ing when talking about the thing that is causing the emotion:
Football is boring.
Music is f ascinating.
Studying English is interesting.
Seeing a concert is exciting.
Eating a big dinner is satisfying

What do you dislike about X?
What do you dislike about parties?

I absolutely hate going to the cinema.

changes will happen due to technology

yes i have thought about this a lot recently ., actually i believe techno;logy will continue to transform our lives
dramatically. for instance i am quite sure that cell phone will be like wristwatch and will be activated by vocie 
control, rather than pressing buttons to input numbers. i am also convinced that technology will contributye enormously to
advance in medical industry. for exmaple i think that in about 50 years , we will have found a cure for cancer and other serious
diseases



.1 think that given the current rate of development, Vietnam will be a verJI strong
and modern countr~ in quite a sbort time. At the moment the cities are becoming
more and more modern, people are constructing more and more office blocks,
and traditional residential areas are disappearing at an alarming rate. Taking all
these facts into consideration, J have 110 doubt that Vietnam will be a safer, cleaner
and more beautiful and convenient place to live in the future ... A lot of scientists
are suggesting that due to global warming, it is very liI~ly that we willface serious
problems in the next 30 years ...
